---
title: Carry your sword and dagger programmers!
date: 2013-05-03T00:00:00-05:00
tags:
  - programming
  - practice
---

A knight would for sure carry his sword proudly and ready for any
battles. But then he can not use such a heavy weapon for daily tasks
such as peeling an apple. Sometimes I think the same with ourself as
programmers. We need a stable, strong and static typed programming
language that can get us the heavy job (large project, and enterprise
system) done in more manageable way. But yet, we face many smaller daily
tasks (eg: parse a text file for a search value, or generate sample data
etc) that is better fitted to use a lighter, dynamic language because
they are faster to write; and the code need not go through heavier
process as the main project.

Through out my career, I have been keeping two languages (one strong
typed and one dynamic typed) pair very up to date. I would learn it and
be proficient with it enough to write code without flipping through a
book. I started with C++ with Perl and then switched to Python. And then
later with Java and Jython, and later with Groovy. These are my
strongest languages that I used the most, especially with Java. Of
course I never stop learning other languages as well, such as Scala and
Ruby etc. I personally think Ruby is very nice and good language to
learn and use. I just not have had a chance to use it that extensively
yet. Mastering a full static language such as Java would take much
longer time, but one can learn a dynamic language fairly quickly.

Any rate, if you a programmer, I strongly encourage you to learn at
least two languages, and learn it well. As I said, prefer one static and
one dynamic language. This pair of combination will boost your
productivity to next level.
